Okay, then my friends, in this lesson,
we're going to talk about something
called slash commands, which I'm just
going to call commands from here on out
because it's much shorter. And we're
also going to make a custom command as
well. So then, we've already seen and
used several built-in commands that
Claude Code gives to us out of the box.
And we've done that by typing a slash,
then whatever the command name was, for
example, clear to clear the context, or
initialize
a claw.md file. Now if you just type
slash on its own then you're going to
see a list of all the available commands
that come with claude code and you can
key up and down to go through these. So
we've got add dur to give claude access
to another working directory which in
essence it allows multiple repository
development then from one location which
could be useful if you have related
projects like a backend and a front end.
We've got forward/ aents for managing
sub aents which we will see later on in
the course. There's clear and compact
down here which we've used already.
There's a model one which if we use
allows us to choose which model we want
to use. I've got Sonic 4 selected at the
moment. And also you can escape these
screens by just hitting the escape key.
There's also a permissions one somewhere
which we can use to add permissions for
different tools in Claude Code for this
project. And that adds those permissions
to the local settings file for you when
you set them up this way. I normally
just manually add them myself. But
anyway, I'm not going to read all these
different commands now because there's
way too many and we will be using some
of them in future lessons. But
definitely take a look through and have
a little play around with them. The
thing I'd like to focus on in this
lesson is making a custom command which
we can add to this list. And we would
make a custom command for common tasks
we might perform in the project. For
example, in this project, I might be
making a lot of UI components. So I
could make a command for generating
those components which includes a
detailed prompt. Any context needed and
any other specific details I can pass to
the AI model. Then whenever I need to
make a new UI component, I can just use
that custom component command to do it.
So let's give this a shot. The first
thing we need to do is make a commands
folder inside this.claw folder. And if
you don't see that claw folder already,
you can go ahead and make that too. Then
inside the commands folder, we can make
a new markdown file called whatever we
want the command to be named. For
example, I'm going to call it UI-
component.mmd.
All right. So now inside this file, we
can give Claude code whatever
instructions that we want to make a new
UI component. So I could tell Claude
where the file should go, the naming
convention, any component variants I
want, how to test the component, etc.
For now, I'm just going to paste in a
simple set of instructions which tells
it to make a new single UI component in
the components folder and then in the UI
folder. And I say that the component
should be a functional component with
the name in Pascal case. I'm also
telling it to add the following variants
and sizes for the component using the
colors from the theme variables in the
CSS file. And notice how I'm using the
at sign to load in another file as
context here. You can do that in these
custom uh custom commands. Then I tell
Claude to make a test file for the
component as well. And I want it to run
the test until they all pass. Finally, I
ask it to add the component to the
preview page so that we can preview it
in the browser when we're done and not
to add it anywhere else in the project
because sometimes Claude can get giddy
and it wants to use this new stuff
everywhere else, too. So, by adding
this, it's just going to get added to
the preview page. And all this, by the
way, is just like a really big prompt.
When we use a custom command, claude
code essentially pulls in this markdown
file and it uses it as a prompt. All
right, so let me close this file. And we
also need to restart a new Claude
session for it to pick up on this new
tool that we've just created or this new
command rather we've just created. So
exit out of the current session, then
start cla back up again. All right. So
now if we do forward slash, we should
see the new command that we just
created. this one right here, UI
component. So, I'm going to tap on that
and then I'm just going to press enter
to run this command. And notice though,
nowhere in the command did we say what
kind of UI component to make. So, it's
basically just handing the reins over to
the AI to make whatever component it
sees fit.
All right, so we can see that it's
decided to create a card component. So,
let's go ahead and let it do this. If
you wanted it to do something different,
you could say no and tell clog what to
do differently. We're just going to
press yes and don't ask again for make
the commands in this project.
Okay. And we're going to allow it to
make these changes.
And now it wants to run this bash
command to test out the component.
Okay, so it looks like it's all done.
It's created the card component, the
test file. It's got five variants, three
sizes, and all the tests have passed.
It's added the preview to the preview
page as well. Let's just check over here
that everything is added before we
preview this in the browser ourselves.
So, if we go to UI, we can see the card
folder and the card file over here. So,
this is the component. And again, I
would normally just go through this
thoroughly, make sure it is coded how I
would want it. Same for this file. any
content that Claude generates, I would
just have a look through. Then if we go
to app and then go to preview, we can
see we've got changes in the page file.
So somewhere in here, there should be a
new card component probably right at the
bottom. So let's scroll all the way
down.
It's a big file now, but there we go. We
can see the different variants of the
card component. So now let's see what it
looks like in a browser. All right.
Right. So, I'm just on the preview page
and if we scroll right down, we should
hopefully see these cards. Yeah, we do.
So, we can see these different
variations as well. They look pretty
nice to be honest. So, we've got
primary, secondary, success, warning
card, danger, and they've all got a
little hover effect as well, which I
quite like. We've got different sizes,
interactive cards. Wow, that's quite
nice. Uh, disabled card, uh, feature
cards with little icons on them. So,
it's done a pretty extensive job here
and I could easily see myself using
these kind of cards in this project.
Let's just check what they look like in
dark mode. So, let's click on this. And
if we scroll right down, yeah, we've got
dark mode variations as well. Awesome.
All right. So, that worked and it looked
okay. But currently, whenever we use
this command, we're getting a mystery
component. We don't know what it's going
to be and we're passing that decision to
cla code. Instead, when I use this
command, I'd like to specify exactly
what UI component that I want. So, for
example, I would say forward/ UI
component and then something like card
with maybe a brief description as well.
And we can do that using command
arguments. So, if we open up the command
file, I'm going to add this little
section at the top of the file. And
there's a few things we need to go over.
First of all, we've got this front
matter at the top of the file, which is
a markdown feature that lets us supply a
kind of metadata for the file. In this
case, we've got two properties inside
the front matter. Description, which is
what the command does, right? And an
argument hint to tell us what kind of
arguments are expected when we run this
command. Now, both of these are going to
show up in the chat interface when we
use the tool to remind us of what this
command does and what it needs. Next up,
I've added this new context section
where we instruct Claude code to pass
this dollar sign arguments variable to
get some values. Now, this arguments
thing is how Claude code captures
whatever arguments we pass into the
command when we call it. And it doesn't
matter whether we pass one, two, or five
arguments. They're all caught within
this single dollar sign arguments value.
In our case, I want to be able to pass
two arguments, a name and a summary of
the component we're making. So, we
somehow need to pass those two arguments
from the arguments value. Now, I've not
seen any official guidance on how to
pass multiple values from this on the
docs or anywhere else, but I found the
following method works really well. I
use square brackets to essentially
create variables with values where the
name of the variable is the thing in the
square brackets and the text on the
right is telling Claude code what to
store for this. This is actually how we
make reference links in markdown, but I
also find it works well for this kind of
thing. So, we're telling Claude code to
try and pass the arguments to find and
store these values, which means we can
then use them down here in the
instructions.
So, I'm now just going to highlight all
of this task part, delete it, and
replace it with a new instruction
incorporating those argument values. And
I still tell it to make a UI component,
but this time I tell it to use the name
and summary values. first for the folder
and file names, second for the component
name, and lastly I tell it to reference
the summary when making the component
itself. So now when we call this command
from claude code, we can pass in the
arguments which then get passed and then
used by the AI to come up with the
component using those values. Before we
do that though, we need to exit Claude
and restart it again because we made a
change to the command file. So exit out
and then fire it back up.
Okay, then. So now if I press forward
slash we can see UI component and it
tells us create a UI component in this
directory. I'm going to press tab on
this and you can see it's given us a
hint for the arguments it expects now.
So let's make maybe an icon component.
So it should be called icon. Then I'm
going to do a pipe to do the second
argument. And I'll just say an icon
component for showing icons with a
circular background. Let's see what it
does for that. And let's press enter.
All right, then. So, it's asking to make
edits. So, I'm going to select the
second option and press enter.
Okay, so it looks like it's done
everything. So let's close this and also
this and see what files it's created and
changed. If we take a look inside the UI
folder, we can see now we've got an icon
folder. We've got the test file and the
component itself. So we have the
variants that we can pass in the size.
We have the on click. We also have a
class name as well. They're the icon
props. Okay, let's have a look around
here. So, the child I think will be a
icon itself, I think. Let's have a look
what it's done inside the preview page.
Let's scroll right to the bottom where
the icons are. Yeah, it's added them.
Okay, so we have these little emojis
embedded into the icon. So, I guess
whatever icon we want, we would output
it here, whether it's an emoji or some
icon from a package that you might use.
All right. So, I'm just on the preview
page again and I'm going to scroll right
the way down. All right. So, we can see
these icons right here and they look
okay. I think instead of using emojis, I
would probably have used some icon
package. I would have preferred that.
And to be honest, that's something I
would have just gone back and told
Claude and it could have edited those
files again and it would have updated it
to make it work correctly as I see fit.
And that's the importance of staying in
the loop, looking what it's doing, and
not just accepting everything it does by
default.
And in fact, I couldn't help myself.
I've just been back to the code. I've
asked Cloud Code to change it and use an
icon library instead. And if we take a
look at these now, I'm hopeful that
they're going to look a little bit
better. If we go right down. Okay, there
we go. Yeah, that looks loads better.
We've got all these different variants.
We've got different sizes, interactive
icons. We've got action bars, different
ways we can use them. Yeah, they all
look loads better. Anyway, I think
that's enough on commands and custom
commands. And in the next lesson, we're
going to look at MCP servers.